title: Contributing
save_as: contributing.html

# Copyright Assignment

VOLK is a sub-project of GNU Radio. Thus, in the past the copyright was owned by 
the Free Software Foundation. Since then, we switched to the 
[Developer's Certificate of Origin (DCO)](https://github.com/gnuradio/volk/blob/main/docs/DCO.txt)
process. Thus, make sure you have read the DCO and sign every commit with
`git commit -s` to acknowledge these terms.

# Working on VOLK

## Git workflow

The official git code is tracked on the repository `main` branch. Every once in a while
we tag a release off of the `main` branch.

Checkout the branch appropriate for your change and start a new branch with a
short name describing your feature. The branch name should be meaningful in the
git log if it appears in a merge commit.

Make sure every commit is signed with `-s`. With this step you confirm the DCO.

The first line of every commit message should be less than 70 characters with
the following format

    component name: brief summary that is less than 70 characters

If more detail is needed, skip a line and add more detail. Keep lines to less
than 80 characters.

## Submitting Your Changes

The preferred method of submitting changes is through a Github Pull Request to
https://github.com/gnuradio/volk. For smaller changes you can upload a
patchfile generated by git to the issue tracker.

If you have substantial changes and prefer to not use Github then send a note
in chat or the mailing list describing your changes and a link to a publically
available git repository.

All pull requests and patch series will be tested by running ctest on multiple
platforms (Linux, MacOS, Windows) and architectures (x86_64 (64-bit), armv7, aarch64).
